Introduction
------------

Uplink turns your HTTP API into a Python class.

.. code:: python

    import uplink

    class GitHub(uplink.Consumer):
        @uplink.get("users/{user}/repos")
        def list_repos(self, user):
            """Get a user's public repositories."""

To interact with your Web API, simply instantiate the class.

.. code:: python

    github = GitHub(base_url="https://api.github.com/")

Then, invoke any decorated method to execute the HTTP request to the
remote webserver.

.. code:: python

    repos = github.list_repos("octocat")

Uplink uses the powerful `Requests
<http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/>`_ library. So, the returned
list of :py:obj:`repos` is simply a :py:class:`requests.Response`:

.. code-block:: python

    print(repos.json()) # [{'id': 18221276, 'name': 'git-consortium', ...

For non-blocking requests, Uplink comes with support for :py:mod:`aiohttp` and
:py:mod:`twisted`.


API Declaration
---------------

Decorators on the consumer methods and function annotations on its
parameters indicate how a request will be handled.

Request Method
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Every method must have an HTTP decorator that provides the request
method and relative URL. There are five built-in annotations: ``get``,
``post``, ``put``, ``patch`` and ``delete``. The relative URL of the
resource is specified in the decorator.

.. code:: python

    @get("users/list")

You can also specify query parameters in the URL.

.. code:: python

    @get("users/list?sort=desc")

URL Manipulation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

TODO: Figure out how to better present this

A request URL can be updated dynamically using replacement blocks and
parameters on the method. A replacement block is an alphanumeric string
surrounded by ``{`` and ``}``. A corresponding method parameter can be
named after the string:

.. code:: python

    @get("group/{id}/users")
    def group_list(self, id): pass

Alternatively, the corresponding method paramter can be annotated with
``Path`` using the same string:

.. code:: python

    @get("group/{id}/users")
    def group_list(self, group_id: Path("id")): pass

Query parameters can also be added.

.. code:: python

    @get("group/{id}/users")
    def group_list(self, group_id: Path("id"), sort: Query("sort")): pass

For complex query parameter combinations, a mapping can be used:

.. code:: python

    @get("group/{id}/users")
    def group_list(self, group_id: Path("id"), options: QueryMap): pass

Request Body
~~~~~~~~~~~~

An object can be specified for use as an HTTP request body with the
``Body`` annotation:

.. code:: python

    @post("users/new")
    def create_user(self, user: Body): pass

TODO: Word this better: The keywargs parameter, ``**kwargs`` works well
with the ``Body`` annotation:

.. code:: python

    @post("users/new")
    def create_user(self, **user_info: Body): pass

Form Encoded and Multipart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Methods can also be declared to send form-encoded and multipart data.

Form-encoded data is sent when ``form_url_encoded`` decorates the
method. Each key-value pair is annotated with ``Field``, containing the
name and the object providing the value.

.. code:: python

    @form_url_encoded
    @post("user/edit")
    def update_user(self, first_name: Field, last_name: Field): pass

Multipart requests are used when ``multipart`` decorates the method.
Parts are declared using the ``Part`` annotation:

.. code:: python

    @multipart
    @put("user/photo")
    def update_user(self, photo: Part, description: Part): pass

TODO: Mention that parts should be given as Requests expects them

Header Manipulation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can set static headers for a method using the ``headers`` decorator.

.. code:: python

    @headers("Cache-Control: max-age=640000")
    @get("widget/list")
    def widget_list(): pass

.. code:: python

    @headers({
        "Accept": "application/vnd.github.v3.full+json",
        "User-Agent": "Uplink-Sample-App"
    })
    @get("users/{username}")
    def get_user(self, username): pass

Headers that need to added to every request can be specified by
decorating the consumer class.

Synchronous vs.Â Asynchronous
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

TODO: talk about support with
